. Texture Compression (Most Important)

Your 50MB file size is most likely due to large, uncompressed textures. This is the single most important area to focus on.

Problem: Your optimizer doesn't seem to handle texture compression. Standard PNG or JPEG textures are very large when loaded into GPU memory, which is a huge bottleneck for web games.

Recommendation:

KTX2 with Basis Universal: This is the modern standard for texture compression on the web. It allows for high-quality textures with a very small file size and, crucially, a small memory footprint on the GPU. You can use a command-line tool called toktx to convert your existing textures to KTX2.

WebP: For a simpler, but still effective, approach, you can convert your textures to WebP format. WebP offers a good balance of quality and file size and is widely supported.

Implementation: You can integrate these tools into your glboptimizer by calling them as subprocesses. Alternatively, you can use a more comprehensive tool like glTF-Transform, which has built-in support for KTX2 and WebP compression.

2. Advanced Mesh Compression

Problem: While you have basic geometry simplification, you're missing out on advanced mesh compression techniques that can shrink your geometry data by up to 95%.

Recommendation:

Draco Compression: Draco is a library from Google specifically designed to compress 3D geometry. It's highly effective and widely supported in modern 3D viewers and game engines.

Meshoptimizer: This is another excellent tool that can significantly reduce the size of your mesh data. It's often used in conjunction with Draco for the best results.

Implementation: Both Draco and Meshoptimizer are available as command-line tools or libraries that you could integrate into your optimizer. Again, glTF-Transform provides easy access to both of these.

3. Quantization

Problem: Your tool doesn't seem to perform quantization, which is the process of reducing the precision of your model's data (e.g., vertex positions, normals, and UVs).

Recommendation: Use a tool that supports quantization. This can significantly reduce file size with minimal impact on visual quality. glTF-Transform and gltfpack both have excellent quantization features.

Recommended Tools

While you can definitely continue to build out your glboptimizer, I would strongly recommend using existing, battle-tested tools that already implement all of the features mentioned above. Here are the best options:

glTF-Transform: This is a powerful and flexible command-line tool and library for optimizing glTF and GLB files. It supports everything I've mentioned: Draco, Meshoptimizer, KTX2, WebP, quantization, and much more. It's the Swiss Army knife of glTF optimization.

gltfpack: This is another excellent command-line tool that is incredibly fast and easy to use. It's particularly good at optimizing for rendering performance and can automatically apply many of the best optimization techniques.

Your Workflow for Large Files

Here’s a recommended workflow for handling your 50MB files to get them ready for a web-based game:

Simplify Geometry: Use a tool like Blender or your glboptimizer to reduce the polygon count of your model to a reasonable level for a web game.

Compress Textures: Convert all your textures to KTX2 format using toktx. This will be the biggest factor in reducing your file size.

Optimize with glTF-Transform or gltfpack: Run your GLB file through one of these tools. A good starting point with glTF-Transform would be a command like this:

Bash
gltf-transform optimize model.glb optimized_model.glb --texture-compress ktx2 --compress draco
Test: Load the optimized model in your game and check the performance and visual quality. You may need to tweak the optimization settings to find the right balance for your needs.